with the touchstones of normal life
vanishing before our eyes the Senate
late today approved the first
interventions for Americans caught
financially flat-footed by this pandemic
it comes as officials warned the number
of infected Americans will soar largely
as the pace of testing increases
hospital ships are now being mobilized
to ease the strain in the medical system
the military stepping in with critical
supplies but the reality tonight is this
crisis is getting worse and what we do
will determine how bad it gets let's
turn to our team now for the latest
first Miguel Almaguer tonight the
American shut down perhaps spreading
faster than the coronavirus today more
city centers small businesses and rural
schools shuddered as the illness spikes
again now reaching every state infecting
thousands and killing more than a
hundred nationwide in communities big
and small the National Guard deploying
to additional regions as more counties
order a shelter in place restricting
public gatherings telling families not
to leave home unless necessary we're
just trying to like condense my outside
time as little bit as possible the
governor of New York says no such order
is imminent for New York City where the
USNS comfort a floating hospital with
1,000 rooms will dock next month and
where businesses are being forced to
operate differently no more than 50% of
the workforce can report for work
outside of the home as iconic Detroit
automakers like Ford GM and Chrysler a
symbol of American manufacturing pull
the plug on production the us-canadian
border is also closing two non-essential
traffic even College commencements are
being canceled the president urging
everyone to stay home we must sacrifice
together because we are all in this
together facing a shortage of testing
kits in an influx in demand officials
say those without coronavirus symptoms
should not be tested in Portland Oregon
clinics are closing temporarily to
prepare for an influx of patients
doctors are worried over the next four
to five days a large spike in cases will
be confirmed
it wasn't like any sickness that I've
had before 31 year old Laura Koch fears
she has the virus but says she can't get
tested in Chicago couldn't sleep and I
was sweating through t-shirts left and
right that even now it's difficult for
me to walk upstairs without losing my
breath amid an ongoing run on supplies
at grocery stores public schools across
the country are handing out free meals
to hungry students after closing their
doors the governor in Kansas announced
classes are over for the rest of the
academic year California's governor said
the Golden State with its six
million-plus students could follow suit
Justin Wilhite says the virus is nothing
like the flu nothing gets rid of the
pain nothing gets rid of the symptoms
everything the authorities are trying to
get you to do I'm living proof of why
you need to do them tonight our country
entering a new era as we all witness the
changing face of America in several
cities and states across the country the
number of confirmed coronavirus cases
actually doubled since last count
that's a scary trend will likely
continue to see and tonight doctors say
they are also concerned about the
homeless population where the vilest
virus could quickly spread and go
undetected for some time Lester Miguel
thank so you mentioned that sub expected
spike in the coming days the nation's
health care system is feeling the stress
already health care workers desperate
for protective gear and those with
symptoms anxious to get tested here's
Tom Costello from the nation's hospitals
to the White House today and urge at
rush to get ahead of a promised tsunami
of sick patients New York Governor
Andrew Cuomo says the need is now this
is the number one device that we need
the military now rushing medical gear
including five million n95 masks for
civilian use and two million ventilators
the HHS national stockpile now rolling
out in Boston a dedicated hospital will
now only treat kovat 19 patients
nationwide doctors nurses and first
responders are short on masks
shields and gowns it feels like nothing
I have experienced in my 25 years in
medicine University of New Mexico
emergency chair Steve MacLaughlin and
his family are under home quarantine
after he was exposed to a kovat patient
we know that if we make a mistake with
our personal protection that we could
also get sick and that adds a really
different level I think of anxiety to
this particular event some hospitals
even making their own protective shields
from trips to Home Depot others reusing
protective masks virus can accumulate on
those masks taking them off putting them
back on is of concern and knowing
exactly how to disinfect those masks is
is also concerning tonight the
government reports 7% of those tested
were positive though as testing ramps up
the numbers will also move higher we
will see the number of people diagnosed
dramatically increase over the next four
to five days but across the country long
lines for a test or no test at all South
Dakota is temporarily delayed at an
Atlanta area test site our team kept six
feet distance when Cynthia unis
approached to say she had been turned
away it's been very frightening I don't
even go to the hospital no more I just
lay in the bed and pull it up with the
shortness of breath the Red Cross also
issuing an urgent appeal for blood it's
short 100,000 units we're creating a
very very safe environment for people to
donate
we're sanitizing the beds after each
donation we have gloves we're taking
people's temperatures as they presented
the drive also tonight the government is
allowing doctors to cross state lines to
practice in areas where they're needed
most and it's pushing pharmaceutical
companies to develop therapeutics in the
absence of a vaccine lustre hats off to
those medical workers Tom thank you
health authorities try to stop the
spread of the virus say they've got a
growing concern that many young people
are still not taking the threat
seriously we said Kerry Sanders to the
beach to find out why
alarming Spring Break images from Texas
to Clearwater Beach Florida today as
packed as ever college students say they
see the warnings including to stay out
of crowds but coronavirus now exposing a
generational divide with authorities
pleading for more young people to social
distance we can't do this without the
young people cooperating and just today
a new warning there are concerning
reports coming out of France and Italy
about some young people getting
seriously ill sobering news that's
sparking even more outrage over images
like these from a lung transplant
survivor self centeredness of many who
oh this is not going to affect me I'm
the younger generation we're the healthy
ones some spring breakers told us they
know they're in the spotlight is the bad
rap earned I mean are we seeing your
generation ignore what they should be
doing I mean I'd say no because I know
our universities completely shut down
meanwhile just a short distance from the
beach those most at risk you like the
idea that we're doing the interview like
this with this protection yeah 93 year
old Shirley Acker told me when she was
young her generation would have heeded
the warnings we did when we were younger
what's the difference today they think
they know it all that's what I think
they think that they're better than the
children were years ago and we just
listened that's why I got to be 93 in
the wake of extreme criticism late today
the Clearwater City Commission voted the
beach will close down but not until
Monday Lester Lester I'd carry the
battle to get everyone on the same page
on this tonight the Senate passing an
aid package to help those impacted by
the virus granting paid sick leave to
hourly workers and expanding
unemployment insurance but Wall Street
tumbled once again today Peter Alexander
has details tonight President Trump
casting this crisis as an unprecedented
battle i view
as a in a sense of wartime president I
mean that's what we're fighting I mean
it's it's a it's a very tough situation
it's the invisible enemy that's always
the toughest enemy the invisible enemy
but we're going to defeat the invisible
enemy and more details about one of the
ways he wants to fight it those checks
to most Americans the administration
calling for two rounds of payments the
first to start going out April 6th the
second six weeks later Congress is still
negotiating but it remains unclear how
big the checks would be and who gets
them president Trump also pushing back
on his Treasury Secretary's private
warning to lawmakers that if the federal
government does not act unemployment
could skyrocket to 20%
I don't agree that's a absolute total
worst-case scenario but no we don't look
at that at all
meanwhile tonight he's brushing off
frustrations about how some of the rich
and famous are getting tests before
others power non-systematic professional
athletes getting tests while others are
waiting in line and can't get them to
the well-connected go to the front of
the line well that kid have to ask them
that question I mean they I've read no I
wouldn't say so but perhaps that's been
the story of life tonight the president
is also defending calling the
coronavirus the Chinese virus despite
fierce criticism that the term is racist
and stigmatizes Chinese Americans his
own CDC director saying it's
inappropriate President Trump tonight
insisting it is not racist but accurate
he says because the virus started in
China Lester
alright Peter Alexander at the White
House and today's sell-off on Wall
Street caused those so called circuit
breakers to trigger essentially halting
trading it's a seven time that's
happened in two weeks some now wondering
what is going to happen to our financial
system and whether they should even
consider pulling their money out of
banks senior business correspondent
Stephanie ruhle is here Stephanie what
should we know last year the markets
might be ugly but that doesn't mean your
money in the bank isn't safe the actual
US financial system is stronger now than
during the last financial crisis in 2008
whether your savings are at a
traditional or non line bank just
remember if it's insured by the FDIC
your money is as safe as can be in
cities where the virus is more
widespread and
movements are restricted it is totally
understandable that some people are
taking a bit more money out of ATMs and
that is okay if it makes them feel
better to have more cash on hand but
that is not really necessary Lester
all right so important reassurance there
Stephanie thank you hey NBC News fans
thanks for checking out our YouTube
channel subscribe by clicking on that
button down here and click on any of the
videos over here to watch the latest
interviews show highlights and digital
exclusives thanks for watching